all right so we've covered a lot in this
course starting from understanding what
containerization is
why docker is helpful what docker images
are where docker containers are how do
you get them up and running how do you
manage them how it's all at the very
basic level just a process and you know
we've covered a long way from underlying
concepts to
usage using the cli and all that stuff
so in this video i want to leave you
with some next steps about what to do
after this
the very first recommendation that i
have is to go to the docker
documentation website and browse around
have that be like a source of reference
for whenever you're working with docker
right so the website is docs.docker.com
there are a bunch of really cool
resources here uh you know we have
manuals and reference for more detailed
information about docker but you also
have language specific guides which i
think is very handy when you have a very
specific use case and you want to learn
how to use docker for it
the other resource that i would
recommend is the docker blog you have a
bunch of really cool blog posts about
using docker in various different
scenarios some news updates about new
features in docker all that good stuff
so i highly recommend you check this out
as well now in addition to all this what
i would recommend is to get into the
mode of thinking docker so we have an
application that you need to install by
default what we would do is go find the
installation
fine you know download it install it and
then use it but then now that you have
the power of docker at your disposal you
can also think okay is this a docker
container that i can use and i can
dispose of rather than finding the
program and installing it right so this
is a good way to think about what are
your current workflow steps that can be
dockerized uh it could even be a
development environment it could be
something that you're doing as a
prototype
see ways in which you can
dockerize your workflow and start using
that you have docker installed on your
machine it's a very lightweight way of
trying on new software and getting rid
of the containers when you're done
without affecting your core operating
system now while this is helpful about
docker itself there are a couple of
other next steps that i would recommend
one thing is to look at something called
docker swarm
docker swarm is a way for you to run
docker containers in production and
manage them right you can manage how
many containers you want you you can
manage when the container starts and
stops scale them automatically and so on
so this is a solution provided by the
same people who have brought you docker
it is docker swarm
an alternative which is a more popular
version of doing this managing
containers and runtime in production is
something called kubernetes okay
kubernetes is often referred to as k8s
is an open source system for managing
this deployment and scaling off your
containers and this is super popular
today it is very widely used with docker
containers in order to scale and manage
your containers at runtime so i highly
recommend you check this out as well so
with this we come to the end of the
course docker essentials you should have
all of the essential know how to work
with docker and apply it to your
workflows i hope you found this course
useful thank you for watching