me let me actually address a couple of
questions here
we now have new docker command and which
one to use that is new version docker
container
run
image
yeah i mean it's they say it's
recommended to use docker container run
but docker run works fine unless they
are deprecated it
should be fine like whatever whatever
works is okay yeah i wouldn't be too
worried about that
so i keep tomcat jre and springboard
application jar linux utility etc
separately in artifactory and create a
docker image using all these is my
understanding correct well not really
what you do is you create docker images
for all those different
needs like you let's say you need a
tomcat container you create a tomcat
container publish it to your uh
repository you create you know a node.js
container publish it to the repository
when you're
starting a new container you're giving
docker what image to start out with okay
so you just pick the image that you're
using for docker run say docker run and
give it the image name then it is going
to
create a container with that image kind
of like you know classes and objects
right and if you're an object-oriented
programmer an image is kind of like a
class an object is an instance of the
class similarly container is basically
an instance of that image may you please
elaborate more on artifactory as far as
i know it stores only jars no my friend
it stores a lot more it stores a whole
lot of artifacts for for example it
stores terraform providers for example
it stores npm packages it does it does a
lot and i don't know if it's an extra
plug-in you need to install or something
like that but you can install
uh docker images and host them in our
factory
can you use maven to build an image yes
you can there's a docker maven plugin
that you can use to build an image but i
don't think yeah i'm not going to be
covering that in this course yes you can
do that it's part of a maven lifecycle
you can do anything with me even you can
write your own plugin which runs an
arbitrary cli command so
the docker plugin as you can imagine
runs a docker cli command on a maven
build face that's pretty much what it
does
all right