now so far we've been creating
containers out of images we have
changed stuff in the container and then
we kind of get rid of the container
without affecting the image we are not
uh going back to an image right so
whatever changes we make we know it's
ephemeral because it's not changing what
is underlying inside the image itself
right so you spin up a new container
from an image you're going to get the
state of the container exactly like what
the image has if you make a change to
the container it doesn't persist back to
the image we understand that now but
let's say you want to persist it somehow
like let's say you spin up a container
you're creating a java environment
you've got your environment set up
exactly the way you want it right you
have all your binary setup you have your
you know environment variable setup it's
perfect you want to save it as an image
well you can actually do that with
docker it is not recommended to do it
this way and i will tell you what the
problem is in the next video but yes you
can do that and i'm going to show you
how to do that in this in this video
right so
you can let me actually spin up a an
ubuntu image and i'm going to remove the
dash dash item i'm going to start an
ubuntu
container in interactive mode and it
throws me to the root directory here i'm
going to switch to
the home directory and here i'm going to
create a file right just just to
demonstrate
that uh
these things can be persistent right so
let's call it hello hello.txt
all right so i have a hello.txt in my
home directory this is not much but this
is representative of some state that you
might have in your container right let's
say you configured a bunch of stuff you
have a whole lot of things going on in
this container and you don't want to
lose it right you want to go back to the
ubuntu image again and lose all the
stuff that you've done you want to
persist it as a new image you're
obviously not going to be able to update
the ubuntu image because that's that's
not even your image right we got this
from
the docker hub but let's say you want to
create your own image which is a which
you know let's call it hello ubuntu okay
which has the hello world
text hello.txt text in uh the home
directory let's say that's what you want
okay you can persist it as an image
right so let's let me exit this
and if i were to do
docker
container ls
of course i need the dash a option and
here that was created just about a
minute ago and just exited just now all
right now what i want to do is like of
course i can attach to this container
again and i have my hello.txt there but
what i want to do is create an image
because i don't want to be using this
container right i want to be able to get
rid of the container create an image and
then perhaps distribute the image to my
colleague who wants to work on the
seller.txt okay so you can do that by
using the docker
commit command okay docker commit helps
you
save a container's changes as a new
image which is exactly what we want okay
so it takes a bunch of arguments it
needs to specify you need to specify
what the container is here i'm going to
give the name of the container which is
cranky pike it might be different in
your machine obviously
and then i'm going to give it a tag a
tag is basically the name of the image
that we've just seen right here ubuntu
is the tag off the ubuntu image so i'm
going to create a new image by doing
this i'm going to say docker
commit
and then i'm going to give the container
crankypike which is this name over here
and i'm gonna give it a new
uh image name okay so i'm gonna call
this
hello
ubuntu you can really call this whatever
you want i'm just calling this this one
so this is going to be my
new image that gets created with
uh with the state of the container that
i've just exited over here okay now what
i can do is i can start this new image
hello ubuntu just like i started this
ubuntu image but now it's not going to
start a container from the ubuntu image
it's going to start a new container from
my
newly created image okay so if i were to
do this i'm again thrown back to the
shell and if i were to look here it
looks like any ubuntu image but if i go
to my home directory
i look here i have my hello.txt okay so
the state of the container
is preserved exactly the way it was when
you run the docker comment command but
now it has created an image out of it
now we can take this hello ubuntu image
share it with your friends share it with
your family and they're all going to
have an ubuntu image which has this
hollow.txt okay so this is useful when
you have a container that you think is
just perfect and you want to preserve it
and
you know this is this is one way to
preserve it as an image
you don't want to be doing this though
like i said this is not recommended and
in the next video i will tell you why
it's not recommended