i want to introduce you to the concept
docker compose this is something that
people
feel it's a little advanced but to be
honest it is super duper simple right
it's a very simple concept and a very
simple uh idea that allows you to
actually make docker work much better
for you
so especially as an application
developer when you're building an app
you
tend to need multiple containers right
you just don't build everything inside
one container you're going to have
multiple containers and you need all of
them to be started and running for your
application to work now when you have a
situation like that say for example
you're building a java application that
connects to a database and it uses a
radius cache and it uses some other like
another micro service which is another
container so you essentially have like
around four or five containers in this
use case
how do you start all these different
containers let's say you've used docker
file and you've created these images and
then you are ready to start up spin up
these containers
well how do you do it one option is to
just use cli commands you've seen how to
do docker run we've seen how to pass
arguments so that the container works
exactly like the way we it right what
kind of ports are open
what volumes you need to mount
everything works exactly like we wanted
to you can create a bunch of cli
commands and have it working okay that's
one option but the second option is to
use docker compose okay tucker compose
is basically a shortcut for running a
bunch of commands for starting up and
managing a bunch of containers right
which is a typical use case for an
application you have multiple containers
that you're dealing with okay so here's
what docker compose does okay docker
compose takes in a yaml file so rather
than have like a shell script that you
run and you manage all your own well
don't have to do that just use this
docker compose it has a specific syntax
about how to create all your uh you know
to specify all the containers that you
need running and then what configuration
you need for those containers so rather
than you know do a docker run a bunch of
times with a bunch of arguments you just
put everything inside a yml file and
then use this docker compose cli then
it's going to start them all up okay
that's as simple as that okay so it
takes an eml file and then this file
contains the your information about the
setup and this is could possibly be
multiple containers a very common use
case for docker composers when you want
to spin up multiple containers right you
put them all in one yammer file and then
you have one command to manage them all
okay notice that i don't say start it's
managed okay so manage includes starting
them all stopping them all killing them
all pausing them all you can do them all
in single commands right you can manage
your whole
application containers like bunch of
containers that form your application
you can manage them all together okay so
in the next video we'll show you how you
can create a docker compose file and
start up multiple containers at once