bare metal to vm i don't know if you
folks know what bare metal is it's a
common term that's used in in devops and
using software engineering in general
bare metal basically means when you're
running your application in your
operating system on the hardware
directly
okay we might ask well how else to run
it well this is the other way to run it
which is basically using virtual machine
right so provisioning physical hardware
is the old-school way of doing things
right so
previously maybe 15 20 years back you
have you have a business you have an
application that needs to run
and you want to deploy to production
allow other people to use it what do you
need to do well you have to go
buy hardware okay i don't mean buy
hardware as in you know click buttons
and make sure it happens no you have to
talk to the vendor have the hardware
shipped to your data center location
right somebody has to
carry that server right the physical
human being has to carry that server
that physical hardware
put it on a rack mounted on a rack and
they need somebody to run software on it
install the operating system manually
and check all that so this is this is
the old way to do this right so this is
provisioning physical hardware right so
what are the things you need to do you
need to procure hardware right you need
to monitor it on server acts you need
new hardware per application you don't
run multiple applications on the same
hardware oh my goodness that's a big
problem because of all the things i
talked about right and then here's the
worst part you need to plan for peak
capacity right let's say you are you're
a cto you're setting up hardware for
your ecommerce website do you set up
ecommerce website the the capacity for
that hardware for the average
load well no because what if your load
increases on certain time well that time
your average capacity is not is not
going to be able to handle it so you
need to provision for the peak capacity
what's the most traffic that i can
anticipate to get
plan for that and plan for a little bit
of a buffer so even like some day your
your website goes viral or whatever you
need to handle that peak capacity
because you want to make make use of
that opportunity right so we want people
buying more when your website becomes
really popular this is actually because
you can't run multiple applications on
one machine right multiple applications
on one machine what's the problem we
talked about it environment is global in
scope okay so we cannot do that
conflicting runtimes
all right one app might need one version
of runtime another app might need
another version
and then you have applications competing
for resources one runaway process might
end up causing problems to other
processes you might have unknown
dependencies this is a tricky one and
this is also something that docker
provides a good solution for so
you know you might change something in
one application right change a file or
rename a file which is not even related
to you think is not related to that app
but it turns out the other app needs
that file all right so you might and we
unknowingly
break
a process because you're actually
changing something with another process
and there is an unknown dependency there
right so that's these are some common
problems with running multiple apps on
physical hardware on bare metal okay
so the non-ideal solution is to have
separate servers per app and physical
servers which are slow and provisioning
right you got to place the order and
have the the vendor ship it to you and
all that all the good stuff
and you have planning capacity for peak
load which means most of the times your
servers are idle instead of that well
what you can use is virtual machines
okay virtual machines are
like the breakthrough solution to the
problem people were super pumped when
virtual machines
were kind of hit mainstream virtual
machines have been there for a while but
when they hit the mainstream with the
work done by vmware and the
popularization of virtualbox as an open
source solution for virtual machines
a lot of things change for people people
are like man i can now run multiple
applications on the same machine and not
have to worry about peak capacity and
not have to worry about one app
interfering with the other all those
things were possible with virtual
machines right