let's take a look at virtual machines
what what is it about them that made
them so
popular and so appealing
here's what virtual machines do
they
simulate hardware
that runs a full operating system right
when you run an operating system the
operating system expects to run on
hardware right there's no program that
runs an operating system at least not
before virtual machines right which
operating systems are expected to run on
bare metal now that term should be
familiar to you bare metal is runs on
the hardware directly
but virtual machines allow you to
simulate the hardware so that the
operating system is running thinking hey
i'm running on bare metal but it's
actually fake metal
that is being simulated by virtual
machines right which machines allow you
to run one os inside another os okay the
windows always thinks it's executing on
hardware and there's nothing that's
changing on the operating system to make
this happen okay the vm software is
basically simulating or providing that
virtual hardware to make this happen all
right
so the way this works
you have a physical hardware and you
have something called hypervisor okay
hypervisor is either software or
hardware that is capable of running
virtual machines right running operating
systems and simulating this right so if
hypervisor is hardware it's basically a
chip which knows how to simulate virtual
machine you know application or it can
be software in which case it's running
on the operating system so you basically
like virtualbox is a good example or
even vmware solutions you you run
windows or mac or linux or whatever you
install the virtualbox software and the
virtualbox software is what's referred
to as hypervisor here okay it's it's the
emulator
what it does is it emulates
uh hardware for an operating system to
run and now you can run something like
windows or linux in that virtual
software right and now what you have
here is two virtual machines being run
by one hypervisor which is basically a
complete operating system that's running
over here and another complete operating
system that's running over here right
it's two virtual machines
so again this can be uh software running
on a noise or directly on bare metal so
now what you have is not just one app
per server what you have is one app per
virtual machine right so you want to run
so you are the same ct or whatever you
want to run multiple applications on the
same machine so you don't have to worry
about provisioning okay what is the
capacity for this guy let's look at the
load and all that no just get the best
machine that you can get right that you
can afford and run virtual machines on
it right so let's say one application
has you know become viral a lot of
people using it will just scale the
capacity of that virtual machine right
that virtual machine is still going to
borrow memory from your actual hardware
so let's say you have a vm very
provision like okay i'm gonna unlock it
like 32 gb of ram well it can only take
a portion of your physical capacity you
can't have it be more than your physical
capacity of that machine right but as
long as you do that you can partition
the capacity well so you like one
application becomes popular well you can
steal ram from the other application so
that that's running on low load at a
certain point of time or whatever you
can manage that you have more
flexibility that way
all right so the advantages are you can
share summary sources you can shift vms
among servers which is another big
benefit right so you have you have a vm
running on one machine and suddenly you
realize well this vm is you know this
application has become super duper
popular now we can promising a much
bigger machine and basically just lift
and shift that vm to run on that
different machine it's going to work
perfectly fine because it is not
dependent on the machine that it's
running on it's a simulation you just
simulate another machine it's it's not
going to know anything right it's going
to work just the same way
and here's another key you have multiple
operating systems that can work on the
same
server right you can provision a linux
host operating system and on virtual
machine on virtualbox you can run
windows or vice versa you can have a
windows which hosts linux mac is not
very conducive to being a guest
operating system so you cannot run a
virtual machine which runs mac or at
least it's not legally allowed to run
you can technically run it but it's not
legally allowed but you can run a
mac host like a mac running on bare
metal which runs virtual machine which
holds windows or linux that's that's
possible too so we have all these
combinations and permutations that are
possible with virtual machines which is
super useful
the other a very important benefit is
you have machine images you can you can
take a snapshot of a machine and then
you can make multiple copies of it so
you don't have to install like let's say
you need to provision a certain linux
right you need centos eight with these
binaries installed well you just create
a virtual machine take a snapshot of it
and then now you can instantiate
multiple virtual machines with that
exact same configuration exact same
snapshot which is which is super useful
as well
okay
so
these are all the benefits
great
and this was super popular because of
the popularity of the cloud with aws and
azure and all that stuff but you want to
provision something on the machine well
you can't just click a button and have
some human being go and set up hardware
right that's not going to happen but
virtual machines are software you can
have a web interface where somebody
clicks a button you go run some scripts
which basically creates a new vm well
that's all possible because now we are
in the software and now so you can the
whole vm phenomenon
enabled provisioning via software it was
unheard of before it was not possible
before but since we are now in the
software realm we have cloud providers
that aws and azure um
create vms and there is a possibility
and this is i'm sure this has happened
with something like aws there's a
possibility of having competitors
running on the same machine competitors
running their websites super secure
websites running on the same machine
because vm is like a complete isolation
right it's like a separate virtual
machine in itself
i see a question here can you please
elaborate but on hypervisor as hardware
and as software
so here is the thing software is
basically a set of instructions to
hardware right any software is so when
you think about vm software running on
windows for example
if you're running a machine which uses
windows that you need to do a bunch of
other things with nvm happens to be one
of those well you can install something
like virtualbox and have it virtualize
the operating system that you're running
however if the sole purpose of your
hardware is to just run a virtual
machine well then what's the point of
installing windows right why not just
install just the bare minimum
virtualization solution okay so what
people have done is they've actually
created specialty hardware
where the goal of that hardware is
basically to run vms okay just like you
have a typical computer hardware which
takes an operating system in order to
run well that particular hardware is is
basically you know chips and uh circuits
which don't take an operating system to
run what they need is they need like a
virtual machine image okay that's all
you need to do right the the software
required to run a virtual machine is
actually in the chip it's actually in
the hardware so it makes it super
efficient and you don't have the other
steps that you need to run windows or
linux or anything else your goal is
basically to just run uh virtual
machines i hope that makes sense
so what are the disadvantages of vms
there are a few right so let's take this
screenshot
can you tell me how many copies of
windows are running in this picture
there are three
yeah possibly three copies can you
identify them well
you see here this is a windows virtual
machine there is behind there is one
more windows virtual machine this one is
an ubuntu virtual machine
well there's a third one
well there is one machine which is
hosting all these different vms right so
that could possibly be windows there is
one ubuntu
there is two windows virtual machines
and there is a possible third operating
system which is either windows or linux
or whatever else right so totally there
are four operating systems in the screen
chat okay for complete oss running
um
i i want to make sure you understand the
terminology right so the host os is
basically what is running all these
different virtual machines it's the host
right it's it's invited those other vms
to its house and it's running it the
guest operating system is basically
what's running inside the
inside the host inside this vms so there
are four operating systems here in this
midi screenshot that's a problem right
if you want to run four uh four
applications you want to run three
applications you need to run for
operating systems on a single piece of
hardware or you need to get more
hardware right so this is this is a
problem
so take a look at this
this is a kind of like a high level
diagram of what it takes to run three
operating systems using vms you have the
hardware server at the very bottom
right this is the bare metal server when
you have a host operating system windows
or linux whatever it cannot be mac here
like i said and then you have your
hypervisor this can be virtualbox it can
be vmware player or anything more
elaborate and now in this hypervisor you
set up one guest os right this is let's
say this is windows you install all the
binaries libraries on it then you set up
your app you set up another guest os
install all the binaries set up your app
and so on right the problem is this case
os is repeated everywhere right you have
three copies to run these applications
so the disadvantages of vms are we have
wasted computing resources with multiple
os instances
we are um we're getting a little bit
greedy here right we went from having to
run
uh one application per server to here
this is an improvement but innovation
doesn't stop if you're satisfied with it
right now you're like yeah this is great
we've made improvement but this is not
good because now we're running multiple
operating systems right is there
something better is the question right
so this is a problem and then here is
another problem which like i've worked a
little bit with virtual machines and
this is the biggest pain i tell you you
have to maintain all these operating
systems i told you how you have machine
images where you can kind of start out
with the perfect configuration which is
great but now you're running the vm for
a bit and now you know there's a new
update from windows your new you know
you have to run apt-get again for your
ubuntu image like you have to constantly
keep updating this thing and which is a
pain
and now you have always a licensing cost
as well for people in suits you have to
pay for these operating systems which is
a problem
and then here's another problem which is
it's slow to start up you want to start
up an application what do you need to do
you need to start windows first or you
need to start linux first have the
operating system start up and then start
your application it is it's obviously
slow right
so again the question is is there a
better solution if there wasn't a better
solution they would have been like yeah
these are the disadvantages but at least
it's better than bare metal so we are
happy with it
but there is thankfully a better
solution which is
containers all right
so
think about
what does it need to do what's the ideal
solution here right like if you were to
come up with an ideal picture of what
you need in order to be able to run an
application
what do we really need
from a container