so on linux
this is the picture that you have okay
so you have docker running
and they have all the core
containerization features that are
available in linux docker leverages it
great which is fine but now what about
mac
right you install docker on a mac what
is it to do it's like man i don't have
any of those
features that i use on linux okay so
here's what happens when you install
docker on a mac it actually installs a
linux vm okay so for all the hate that
we gave to virtual machines what docker
on a mac actually is doing is basically
creating a virtual machine on your mac
operating system right all the stuff
that we talked about right so something
like virtualbox or something like that i
don't remember exactly what hypervisor
software uh doctor uses but it's
basically creating a linux virtual
machine it's running a linux os inside
your mac os and inside that now we have
core containerization features and now
docker is going to basically call those
features in order to make containers
happen okay so this is how docker works
on a mac okay
the the features that enable
containerization in docker work only on
linux so you need linux no matter what
your operating system is so you install
docker on the mac you get a linux vm
with windows you used to get a linux vm
right when you had like
while back you had to install docker on
windows it would do the same thing it
would install the linux vm run it and
then use containers on that vm
but
things have changed with wsl right folks
you don't know wsl stands for windows
subsystem for linux it's basically a way
to virtualize linux on windows and it is
kind of
kind of baked into the operating system
so you don't need a virtual machine you
just use a wsl nerd because all you need
is to run linux right wsl provides a way
for you to run linux on windows and
without using a vm so it's like why use
a vm you can just use wsl right so there
are certain situations where i think a
vm is still used for example with
windows home i think you still need to
install a vm because
uh windows home doesn't have the
virtualization features enabled that ws
needs
windows pro has virtualization features
want to get into it too much in depth
but basically
docker finds the best way to get linux
running on your non-linux machine when
you install it right on mac no choice it
has to install a vm on windows it says
okay is this windows homework pro if
it's home well you cannot install wsl so
it installs a vm if it's uh pro then it
goes well i already have wx it's going
to use that it's going to do the right
thing for what you want it to do okay so
with windows you basically have
uh wsl
providing those the core
containerization features that you want
all right
at this point i should mention about
windows containers as well i should
acknowledge that okay windows has been
adding containerization features to the
windows operating system just like i
told you linux operating system has
these containerization features windows
has been building something similar for
windows so the goal
is to run
windows containers in windows without
needing linux okay so that's that's
possible but the major market share is
still linux and it's very very unlikely
that you're going to encounter a windows
container in your docker journey as
software developers so i'm going to
acknowledge it and i'm going to move
away from it we're going to focus mainly
on
the linux containers
docker has a
client server model okay client server
model client is a docker cli that you
interact with you write docker commands
in using terminal we're going to be
doing a bit of that
server it's what's referred to as a
docker engine okay it's basically a set
of processes that run in the background
one of them being the daemon but that's
what's responsible for
making things happen with your
containers so for example you run i'm
going to start a new docker container
you run a cli see eliza cline and the
cli communicates with the daemon the
protocol used as grpc don't worry about
it if you don't know it's just a way for
the client to communicate with the
server and it says hey i want this
container to run this particular thing
it's going to start the container stop
the container all that stuff right for
example the server on the mac
is uh responsible for starting that
linux vm okay it's you need linux vm to
work on a mac so the the docker engine
will start the linux vm and get things
going you
don't have a separate process for
installing the client in the server the
docker installer does it for you you
just run the docker desktop there's a
docker desktop is a good way to kind of
get docker on your machine there are
other ways to do it this is the easiest
once you install docker desktop you get
both the client and the server