okay a couple more questions where does
docker store these container and image
details well this is stored in the
in the vm or in wsl right because this
is in wsl
these files are linux files they're
supposed to be in linux so it puts it in
wsl or in your vm
it's not
you're not supposed to know
where
but it is it is over there i don't think
it's it's a public api with the location
of the containers isn't public api to
the best of my knowledge i could be
wrong
is it a command to kill all the
containers in an image well no not a
docker command but you can use a bash
command you can just say docker
rm
and then or in this case you're doing a
kill you say docker kill and then
plug in a command which does docker ps
dash a okay or docker ps and then get
the container id and you pass that to
this command you can use bash tricks to
do it but there isn't a docker command
to
kill all containers or remove all
containers no you just give it the ids
when you remove the container it
releases the memory used by that
container
well it remove memory is tricky it's not
ram it removes the memory the space on
the disk that is used by the container
you can only remove a container which is
stopped you cannot remove a running
container let me demonstrate that so
here is okay so let's say docker
ps
okay so this is a container
that is currently running and this is
using memory right it is using ram
obviously now notice what happens when i
try to
remove this okay docker rm
try and remove the sky you see here it
says you cannot remove a running
container here is a full hash by the way
you don't have to do that
stop the container before attempting
removal or you have to force remove
which is which is usually not good so we
have to make sure it's it's stopped so
when it stopped the container is
obviously not going to be
using
memory right it's not it's not it's
mainly space and the hard disk so you're
going to free that up by by doing docker
rm
if a container crashes can we commit
to
an image
to debug
if a container is crashed you can
well you can
commit a container to an image you can
just create a new image from a container
but crashing i don't know it depends on
the state of the container so let me
show you there's a docker commit command
so let's say docker
ps or it's just your docker
commit
help
okay you see here
docker commit creates a new image from a
container's changes so let's say you
have uh you know hello.txt and you
really want that hello.txt in your
container image that you spin this
container from so you can say docker
commit and then use these options and
then create a new container and now now
we have a new image which is exactly the
same state as your container is right
now okay so now this is this is one way
you can make an image but this is hardly
used people don't make images this way
people actually use docker files for it
you don't you don't tend to create
images by you know getting it from the
container because who knows what you did
in the container right you're basically
kind of writing it into an image you
want a little more control over your
images so you don't tend to do that can
we run containers in a cluster using
master slave architecture
yeah you can it's not containers itself
is what's inside the container that is
that's going to be master maybe some
process that's being a masters and
process being a slave for as far as
docker is concerned they're just
separate containers right there's no
there's no container being a master
that's somehow going to make it
different
from something else just different
containers using running different
images what is running inside the
container can be a master to what's
running inside another container
that makes sense
for anything to run it should come and
run into a ram so why can't we say that
the ram is just released yeah the ram is
not released when you do a docker remove
because the container is not going to be
running anyway you cannot docker remove
a running container you can only docker
remove a stopped container when a
container is stopped by definition it
means it's not consuming any ram it's
just sitting there on the hard disk so
when you do a container remove you're
just deleting files you're not freeing
up space in memory when it does when a
container is running and consuming
memory you cannot do docker remove
anyway you can do docker stop or docker
kill and that is going to stop the
container and free up ram at that point
but then it's only after that you can do
docker remove
does that make sense can the stopped
container be restarted with an ide thus
reloading the files added within the
container yes that is possible you can
do a docker start
okay so let's see
docker ps
a
and here are all the stopped containers
now let's see let's take httpd which is
a good good interesting use case so i
can say
docker start
oops
docker start and that container id or
the container name and now i have that
started okay so let's say docker
ps
you see here this is running now i can
ssh into it so it's basically when i
stopped it it has the files exactly
where it should be like it hasn't
removed anything it's just not a running
currently running process it's just a
stopped process now you can start it and
it is going to kind of kick start that
process again start the process again
and whatever is the state of that
container the file folder structure at
that point it is going to take it from
there some processes are good in that it
can kind of pick up where it left off
some processes are like oh something
happened i died last time and i'm
somebody's bringing me back again i
don't know how to work it depends on how
the process is handling it in this
particular case httpd is good it's like
okay i'm starting httpd process again it
starts up again in that same container
snapshot as it was when you last started
it but again remember this is a new
instantiation of that process the new
process is running of course the same
command but a new process