i want to introduce you to another
docker command which is very handy and
this is something that a lot of people
confuse with the run command that i've
already explained this should make sense
now the run command
runs a command when the image is being
created now however there is another
command which is useful when a container
is
starting when the container is created
and that is using the cmd command okay
to understand the difference between the
two you need to again remember that when
you do a run
docker cli is going to run these
commands on
the thing that will form the image okay
so when you're creating an image that's
when it runs however let's say you want
to run a certain command when your
container starts up you use the cmd
command for it okay unlike a run command
which runs only when the image has been
created the cmd command is an
instruction that's written into the
image so anytime you start a container
from that image that instruction
runs okay so let's say i want to give an
example of echo
welcome to my
container instance okay now this is a
message that you want to be displayed
when the container starts and by using
the cmd command you are going to have
this command run when the container
starts up i'm going to
run the docker build command one more
time and now it's going to save that
command
in the image so that the image knows
that whenever there is a container to be
spun up from that image it is going to
run this command unlike this one which
is actually run during the creation of
the image this is basically saved as hey
when a container starts you gotta run
this command okay so i'm going to run
the container again
the test container with the dash dash rm
flag so that it gets removed and now you
notice this
is run when the container starts up okay
but there's nothing to do here so it
immediately ends but then it runs when
the container starts before i had this
cmd
we used to get a shell right i'm going
to demonstrate that so let's say i
remove this
command and then i create the container
and now i run the container
you see i get a shell because the
previous
command that was run for this image for
the alpine image is the shell the shell
that is a part of that image okay before
you did this
before we added the cmd command there
was instruction in the alpine image to
spin up a shell
now that we have specified our own cmd
we have kind of overridden that and we
don't get a shell anymore right so i'm
going to demonstrate that one more time
i'm going to save
run exit this
run the build again
and now i have created a test image
which has a new cmd which is something
else that needs to run here which is
echo
this command right so in order to fix
the thing that was happening before
let's say i want to show this message
and provide a shell i'm going to use the
and command and then use the sh okay so
i want both of them to run so if i were
to
build the container one more time
and then
run it you see now i get the message and
i also have the shell prompt because
this sh was the previous
cmd in alpine now if i'm providing my
own then i'm going to have to
whatever i do is going to override what
was already there in alpine all right
now we've looked at how this cmd is
something that overrides what's already
available in the base image or whatever
else there is here's another way to do
the override and this is something that
you're already familiar with we've
looked at how when you want to run a
certain command on a container start you
can just specify the command right here
so that is yet another way you can
overwrite this so let's say you have
specified this as the starting command
right you want to have a different
starting command all you need to do is
specify it when you're creating a
container from that image so here i have
a container that i'm starting from the
image test now what i'm going to do is
i'm going to put a command over here and
we've seen this we have seen
how we can add a command here and it is
going to execute this command then that
container starts and notice what happens
instead of running what was specified in
the cmd for this container it just ran
your command okay if you run this
without that command it is going to do
what you would expect it to do which is
what was in the cmd right so there are
multiple levels in which you can
override the starting command that runs
when your container starts right so this
is something which you've already been
doing but now you know how it works in
the internals of the image and what
you're overriding is the final command
that runs you say you want to say hey
forget what's in the image run
this
instead this command instead so you can
specify that when you're running a
container and it's going to take that
instead of what the image specified so
this is the cmd command again this a lot
of people confuse between the run and
the cmd command hopefully this makes
sense a run is used in the process of
creating an image these commands are run
in the process of creating an image
whereas a cmd command is saved in the
image as something that needs to run
then the container has started up all
right so this is saved into the image so
that any time somebody spins up a
container this command following the cmd
is executed